# Online articles

## The Superinvestors of Life Sciences

Link [here](https://axial.substack.com/p/the-superinvestors-of-life-sciences)

Top 16 funds and manager teams use growth, value, activist, 
investor-operator, and crossover methods.

Assess the science, analyze the business, value the company with 
little data and cash flow.

### Firms

BVF (led by Mark Lampert) was founded in 1992 as a pioneer in biotech 
value. Finds underrated drug companies and creates event or waits.

EcoR1 (led by Oleg Nodelman) came from BVF and was founded in 2013. 
Focuses on value investing, esp. unfollowed clinical trials, 
misunderstood pipelines, and insufficient capital. Doesn't focus on 
hard-to-predict science.

The Column Group (led by David Goeddel, Peter Svennilson, and 
Richard Klausner) is very science-driven and takes active role in 
early-stage drug companies specifically.

Baker Brothers (led by Felix and Julian Baker) use multi-decade 
investing and take an active role.

Perceptive Advisors (led by Joseph Edelman) focuses on investor 
psychology (event perception), credit investments, and venture.

Kleiner Perkins (led by Brook Byers and Beth Seidenberg) bet big on 
Genentech.

✅ Third Rock Ventures (led by Mark Levin, Kevin Starr, and Alexis 
Borisy) uses investor-operator model. Created machine to sift through 
scientific data, form an idea to generate clinical data, finance a 
company, and place a partner as the CEO.

Atlas Venture (led by Bruce Booth and Michiel de Haan) focuses on 
clinical demand and ownership to gets 1st dibs on asset spinoffs.

Deerfield (led by James Flynn) does public equity, credit to 
private investments, academic collabs, and philanthropy.

ARCH Venture Partners (led by Bob Nelson and Kristina Burow) started 
as a UChicago and Argonne Natl Lab commercialization project. It 
pioneered the private megaround (up to $1B in a round!).

Venrock (led by Bryan Roberts) focused on scientific breakthroughs and 
unmet needs. Big LP base gives flexibility and long time horizons.

Polaris Partners (led by Terry McGuire and Alan Crane) is based in 
Boston.

RA Capital Management (led by Peter Kolchinsky) focuses on scientific 
integrity. Tries to predict if drug will work and is valuable with 
current runway. Created TechAtlas to map out scientific research and 
drug development programs to identify gaps.

✅ Foresight Capital (led by Jim Tananbaum) uses data-driven methods 
to process clinical, research, marketing, and regulatory data. Likes 
large-scale data. Flexible across private/public and rounds.

OrbiMed (led by Jonathan Silverstein and Carl Gordon) does small-cap, 
venture, debt, and more. Huge fund.

5AM Ventures (led by Andrew Schwab and Kush Parmar) pioneered the 
investor-operator model for life sciences.
